A lot of people have this problem where their anger
seems to come from nowhere. They feel fine one minute,
and the next, they say or do something that they'll
regret. For other people, this problem's even worse. It feels
like they go from zero to one hundred in an
instant. They go ballistic. But the reality is, anger doesn't
come from nowhere. Anger starts small, and it grows gradually.
But when anger is small, it tends to be hard
to notice. Here's the good news. Even if you don't
consciously notice your anger starting to grow, your body still
reacts. You might start to sweat a little bit. Your
face might turn red. You might raise your voice a
few decibels without even realizing it. We call these reactions
anger warning signs. With a little bit of practice, you
can learn to use these warning signs to your advantage
to stop anger in its tracks. Let me tell you
how. I like to think of anger warning signs in
three categories: actions, physical symptoms, and thoughts.
Action warning signs are anything that you do differently as
your anger is starting to grow. For example, you might
become argumentative or raise your voice, or maybe just the
opposite. Maybe you lower your voice, look at your feet,
as if you're trying to avoid confrontation. Physical symptoms are
changes that happen to your body outside of your control,
for example, sweating, shaking, turning red, feeling hot, or shallow
breathing. Finally, thoughts. These warning signs include changes to the
way that you think as your anger is starting to
grow. For example, you might become really fixated on the
source of your anger, or maybe particular thoughts go through
your head, like, "I've been disrespected," or, "This is unfair."
Now, everyone has their own personal warning signs. You might
relate with something that I've just described, or you might
experience something that's completely unique and personal to you. One
of the best ways to learn about your own anger
warning signs is with an anger thermometer. You can do
this on a worksheet or a blank sheet of paper.
To begin, write the number ten at the top of
the paper and number down to one, leaving a few
blank lines after each number. Next, imagine your anger on
a ten-point scale. A ten is the angriest you've ever
been, while a one is completely calm. Think of a
time when your anger was at a ten. What were
your anger warning signs in that moment? Maybe you became
argumentative or physically aggressive, or maybe your body shook with
rage. Whatever it was, write it down. Try to think
of all three categories: actions, physical symptoms, and
thoughts. Now, go down to the bottom. What are you
like at a one on the scale? Maybe you're friendly,
relaxed, or agreeable. Whatever it is, write it down. Next,
go to the middle, a five on the scale. At
this point, you aren't calm, but you're still a pretty
long ways from a ten. Write down the anger warning
signs that you have at this point. And finally, let's
try to fill in a few blanks along the scale.
For example, maybe you know when you're just starting to
get frustrated, you sort of tap your foot, maybe at
a three. Write that down, along with any other warning
signs that you can think of. Now, all of these
items, these are your anger warning signs. The items at
the bottom of your thermometer, they're especially valuable because they're
gonna give you the most advanced warning that your anger
is starting to develop. Once you've learned to catch your
anger early, it becomes much easier to control. You can
come at situations rationally rather than emotionally. That means you
can put yourself on warning, use a relaxation skill, or
just walk away if that's what it takes. Now, catching
your anger warning signs in the moment won't be easy
at first. It takes practice. So to start, you should
review your anger thermometer every day just to keep those
warning signs fresh in your mind. And if you do
have a slip-up where you have an angry episode that
you don't catch in time, that's okay. But use it
as a learning opportunity. The next day, take a look
back and ask yourself, "What clues did I miss?" Now,
with practice, you will learn to catch your anger early,
and this is gonna put the power back in your
hands.